Hey everybody, another wonderful Python Bytes.
Are you ready to kick it off?
Let's kick it off.
It's going to be awesome.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds.
This is episode 381 recorded April 30th, 2024.
And I am Brian Okken.
And I'm Michael Kennedy.
And this episode is brought to you by Scout APM, listen to their spot later in the show
and connect with your hosts if you'd like to.
We're @mkennedy, @brianokken@pythonbytes.org, all at foss.org, connect with us on mastodon.
And if you are listening and would like to join us live sometime to be part of the audience,
you can go to pythonbytes.fm/live and check that out.
And while you're there, while you're at pythonbytes.fm, go ahead and sign up for the friends of the
show list.
And that way you will get an email announcement after we have everything all polished up and
put up online.
So what you got for us first, Michael?
Well, first I have a new audio setup because I'm traveling this week and I had a much nicer
setup Brian, until these guys, these construction guys dropped in and started causing a ruckus.
Could you describe the ruckus?
I don't hear any ruckus.
Little breakfast club.
Yeah, I'm on the East Coast this week visiting my dad and there's a ruckus.
So I'm in a slightly different setup.
It's a little echoey.
So forgive me folks for the echo.
I'll be back to the studio next week.
And connecting with Michael in the field.
That's right.
Reporting from the field.
I did see a wild turkey over there and there have been a couple of squirrels, a baby squirrel
were playing, so it's a very exciting, but not as exciting as Pi to Wasm, a Python to
Wasm WebAssembly compiler.
Now Brian, it would be entirely reasonable to ask or to point out that there is already
a Wasm version of CPython.
So why would it be exciting?
More exciting than baby squirrels?
Well, let's see.
So really it's about performance.
This comes from a company called Wasmer.
They make Wasmer Edge.
Don't fully understand Wasmer Edge.
I'll talk about it for a second in a minute, but they basically have like cloud computing,
but what you deliver are WebAssembly things to run rather than full native code to run.
So they can do them closer to the edge, like CDN endpoints, things like that.
But regardless of how you run it, they've come up with this thing called Pi to Wasm.
And so you can take your code and compile it to this and it's not quite as fast as true
native CPython.
But what I didn't realize that the CPython Wasm is like one fifth as fast as native Python.
So this is three times faster than the alternatives if you're going to do anything WebAssembly.
So that's pretty cool.
And that makes it maybe two thirds the speed of truly native Python rather than compiling
C to WebAssembly and interpret it in a JavaScript runtime, which I guess I understand why that's
slower.
Yeah.
All right.
So pretty interesting.
You just pip install Pi to Wasm and then you just Pi to Wasm your program and you output
your .wasm.
And actually that, I mean, you can run it in Wasmer, but it also kind of just opens
up the possibility to run interesting things on the web and web based platforms in general.
Right.
That's pretty, pretty easy workflow.
Yeah, it doesn't look too bad.
And the pip install one is one time, right?
Like you get that set up and good to go.
Now this is actually based on Nutka.
Am I saying that right?
Nutka, I believe is the way the Python compiler.
And so that's both awesome, but also has an effect.
And the effect is that Nutka, oh, I'm saying this close, right?
Only supports 3.11 so far.
And so your code will only work on Python 3.11.
But honestly, these days 3.11, 3.12, they're real similar, right?
There's not a lot of features that we go like, can't use it.
Can't use 3.11 these days.
Right.
That's kind of as mainstream as you get.
Because people have a lot of really hard requirements for stability or a step behind anyway, right?
Yeah.
And yeah, not to diss anybody that worked on 3.12.
3.12 is awesome.
But yeah.
Oh, no.
I mean, when we have 3.13, 3.12 will be kind of like the mainstream one, right?
Not saying nothing's wrong.
Nothing's wrong with that.
It's just a lot of people stick one version behind.
That's all.
Yeah, that's pretty neat.
Absolutely.
I'm excited to try that for something.
Yeah.
There's a bunch of...
Exactly.
So, it's awesome.
I so want a front end framework to be based on PyScript and the MicroPython runtime and
all of that.
But we don't have that yet.
And so until we do, I don't have a huge use case.
I mean, in the data science world, there's a lot of reasons for like, hey, can we push
the compute for this computationally expensive thing to the browsers so that we don't have
to pay all the cloud computing costs, just like let them download, oxidize, oxide rather,
and run it locally.
Right.
That would be awesome.
But if you're not doing that, now, if we can have front end framework in Python, I'd be
all about it.
Oh, just one thing to wrap up this article here that announces this.
They also talk about like, well, how could you get Python into WebAssembly?
There are ways to do it.
There's ways to make it faster.
You could use a subset of Python.
You could use a JIT.
You could use static analysis, etc., etc.
So they talk about using Cython, R-Python.
Have you heard of R-Python?
Transforms typed code into C and then compiles it with a normal C compiler.
OK.
I didn't know.
I didn't know that.
But you just say R-Python, hello world.py and boom, there's a binary executable.
That's actually kind of interesting.
OK.
And then some other options you could do Python JIT, PyPy, P-Y-P-Y is probably the most common
one of those.
And you can do static analysis with mypyC.
And finally, the one that they chose was Nuke, Nuike.
And then they talked about how they use it here.
So if people want to dig deeper, there's a lot more to go here.
But I think that's enough for introducing the idea.
Yeah.
And I do appreciate that they talked about their tradeoffs and why they picked one over
the other and stuff.
Yeah, exactly.
Pretty neat.
Pretty neat as well.
All right.
Over to you.
Well, I want to talk a little bit about where you get packages from.
So normally, I take a look at PyPI.org to look for stuff.
And that's kind of where stuff's coming from.
And unless you have a local repo, if you do pip install, it's coming from PyPI.
But the or local or your company or something like that.
But in the end, this is the place that we shove all the stuff that people share.
And you can browse things like I picked one of mine, pytestCheck.
And you can you get pretty quick, you can see a bunch of stuff about it, the maintainers,
some of the meta.
And the reason why I'm covering this is because that's kind of what you get with PyPI, this
browse feature.
But there's a couple other options that I wasn't aware of.
And I'm pretty excited about Oven.
So both Oven and what's the other one?
PyPI browser.
So let's take a look at Oven.
So I just learned about this recently.
It's from FrostMing and really slick interface.
And when you search for something here, you get like something similar to what you see
on PyPI.
But there's some meta information on the left and you've got the readme documentation
on the right, the description.
But there's also this kind of fun.
It's got the authors is blank.
I wonder what I'm doing wrong here.
But anyway, it says how to install it in case you didn't know, like pip install, PDM, Rai
and poetry instructions for how to install something kind of fun.
The thing that I really enjoy is some of the extra stuff that it's adding is so some of
the extra stuff is a really great browser for what great look at what the version.
So this is a really clean old version interface and how old they are.
And then the file browser is kind of amazing.
So you've got both wheels.
So I'm distributing both a wheel and a tarball.
And within the wheel, you can check to see you can just see all the files in here.
You can even look inside individual files.
This is pretty amazing to be able to inspect.
Inspect what what you're getting with your wheel before you even try to install it.
It's cool.
And it's really for people who are not pulling this up while they're listening.
It looks very much like the source view, the code view and GitHub actually, but based directly
on the wheel.
Yeah, it's pretty great.
And then even so, even the tarball pulls things apart and you can see see what's in there
through through the tarball.
This is pretty amazing.
All the meta all the meta data and then just everything you can just completely view it
without even installing it or downloading it or anything.
So pretty awesome to look at different different things here.
The it is open source.
It is based on I think it's JavaScript.
I think JS JavaScript and something called remix, which I'm not familiar with, but pretty
new project, but pretty exciting.
I think this is gorgeous and helpful to the community.
And then the I think I saw this on the announcement for oven was comparing it to also pipe browser.
And I'm like, I didn't know about that.
So let's take a look at pipe browser.
So pipe your browser, IPA dot browser.org also as you can search for packages.
And this is not trying to replace the pipe interface too much.
It's just so you can take a look at wheels.
So being able to look at the metadata and the package content within.
Oh, wow.
You can just like, see all this stuff.
So yeah, you pipe your browser allows you to go in and look at all the code, but there's
a little more clicking around to be able to see everything.
So that's why I think that's one of the reasons for the oven is to try to maybe clean up this
interface a little bit, but still, this is pretty cool.
And then one of the neat things about pipe browser is that it is based, it's written
in Python.
It's open source.
Both are open source, but this one's written in Python on starlet.
So it's a starlet app.
And it even says that one of the benefits of this is you can use it as, as a browser
for a private pipe, your registry at your company or an internal registry.
So that's pretty cool.
So I don't know what the differences would try to between trying to install this versus
other things, but anyway, a couple of neat ways to browse Python packages.
Yeah, both are new to me and very interesting.
I like oven a lot.
It looks real good.
Yeah, the, the interface is just gorgeous.
Of course, of course, this is mostly the images neat, but it looks nice.
It says oven to bake pies.
No not to bake pies, to explore Python packages.
And for a while I was like, what's going on?
I don't get the joke.
I honestly, I didn't get the joke for a few minutes and then it's the pie is in the oven.
I get it now.
I'm a little slow sometimes.
So do you know what's not slow?
Scout APM.
Yes, indeed.
Indeed.
Let's talk about Scout, our sponsor.
Let me tell you real quick about Scout APM.
They're big supporters of Python bites.
So we appreciate that very much.
So if you are tired of spending hours trying to find the root cause of issues impacting
your performance, then you owe it to yourself to check out Scout APM.
They're a leading Python application performance monitoring tool, APM that helps you identify
and solve performance abnormalities faster and easier.
Scout APM ties bottlenecks such as memory leaks, slow database queries, background jobs,
and the dreaded N plus one queries that you can end up if you do lazy loading in your
thorium, then you say, Oh no, why is it so slow?
Why are you doing 200 database queries for what should be one?
So you can find out things like that.
And it links it back directly to source code.
So you can spend less time in the debugger and healing logs and just finding the problems
and moving on.
And you'll love it because it's built for developers by developers.
It makes it easy to get set up.
Seriously, you can do it in less than four minutes.
So that's awesome.
And the best part is the pricing is straightforward.
You only pay for the data that you use with no hidden overage fees or per seat pricing.
And I just learned this, Brian, they also have, they provide the pro version for free
to all open source projects.
So if you're an open source maintainer and you want to have Scout APM for that project,
just shoot them a message or something on their pricing page about that.
So you can start your free trial and get instant insights today.
Visit pythonbytes.fm/scout.
The link is in your podcast player show notes as well.
And please use that link.
Don't just search for them because otherwise, they don't think you came from us.
And then they'd stop supporting the show.
So please use our link pythonbytes.fm/scout.
Check them out.
It really supports the show.
Right, thank you, Scout.
Now on to the next thing, which is a freeze frame of Paul Everett in YouTube here doing
an announcement.
So I want to just give a quick shout out to this new, autocomplete code intelligence
engine that's in PyCharm.
People know I'm a big fan of PyCharm, right?
I talk about it all the time.
But if you have any of the pro tools, including PyCharm Pro, there's something that you've
noticed, but if you haven't used it lately, you wouldn't notice, obviously.
And they've added, you know, how people have GitHub, Copilot, and some of these other things
that they can plug into their development tools, right?
Yeah.
Well, the way that works is it takes a section of your code or your code comment that you
ask, instructed to do a thing and then a section of your code and it sends it off to the cloud
and stuff happens.
That send it off to the cloud.
Some companies may frown upon it.
I believe your company says, "Nein, du kannst nicht."
You can't do it.
You're not doing that.
So being a German company, they say it that way.
That's why I said that.
So this is awesome because it's sort of like that, but there's probably the wrong mental
model, but nonetheless, it's like totally local.
So it comes as a plugin for PyCharm and others if you have the pro version, and it just lets
you do like awesome code completion locally with no round tripping, which is pretty neat.
And I think it was on by default on the new PyCharm because why not?
I want to give you an example to give you a sense so people, otherwise it's just like,
"Hey, this thing, it's neat.
It helps you write code.
What does that mean?"
So here's a little bit of code I wrote.
It's a Flask view endpoint and it's using Blueprint.
So it says @blueprint.get/listing.
It says a function deflisting, and then it wants to show some videos and some view.
So there's all code existing.
I'm trying to help people get a sense of where it starts.
Videos equals some database query to get a list of video objects.
Now if you type the word R-E-T, and attempt to begin to write return, do you know what
tab will write for you with this hell outland?
Return Flask.render template, parentheses, /home/listing.html because there's a hierarchy
of the templates and that is the correct one.
And videos equals videos, close parentheses.
Tab to write that.
Yeah, that's amazing.
You just do that all day.
Just tab, tab, tab, tab.
Sometimes it gets it wrong and sometimes it's close enough you tab it and correct it.
And sometimes it gets it, actually this is exactly what should be written, which is insane.
And some pretty long, like you're showing some pretty long stuff that I'm surprised
by.
Some short stuff I'm like, "Oh yeah, that's probably, that's right.
Yeah, that's right."
Yeah, yeah.
Like, "Oh, we're going to sort the functions by most used rather than alphabetical only."
And something silly like that, right?
It's not that.
It's way more than that.
But there's been times now, I'm still loving this because there's times where I'm calling
some API function and I'm just about to think, "Yeah, I don't use this very often.
I have to look it up."
And it just like pops it in and it's correct.
I'm like, "Oh yeah, that's exactly what I wanted."
Thank you.
Yeah.
And I'm already getting used to it to the point where I can't live without it now.
This is an incredible extra feature.
It is.
And where it frustrates me is where I'll type a little too much and it'll go away.
I'm like, "No, I should have just accepted it.
I didn't read.
How do I get this back?"
Yeah.
I've actually started over.
I'm like, "Okay, delete the line and start over because that's easier."
It's going to be quicker than writing the rest of it.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
So anyway, I know PyTorch Pro is a paid thing, but it's also one of the very most common
tools.
And this is not paid, but I think it's awesome.
And so I just wanted to give a shout out for it because so many of these coding assistants
do all this magic by sending all of your code to the cloud and they've got the cloud latency
and all that.
And this is just nice and local and sweet.
Yeah, that's the part that I really...
So yeah, I like that it's just easier.
It fits in my workflow, but also, like you said, at work, we have local GPT kind of things
that we can use that are company internal, which is a neat thing for people to do.
But this is just local and it doesn't even go anywhere.
So it's super fast.
I can even have my laptop unplugged and this works.
So that's pretty cool.
Anyway, good job.
Cool.
Next up.
So that's the good, that's good news.
We've got some bad news and I got this from like lots of people.
So a lot of people were talking about this on Mastodon.
The news is that Google seems to be shedding Python developers, at least in the US.
And there's a bunch of articles around it.
So we've got Registry talked about it.
This is the registry I kind of talked said, Python and Flutter teams latest on the Google
shopping block.
Nevermind the record revenues cost must be cut.
And I this I kind of like this article in that it highlighted that in this time where
they're like laying off a lot of great people.
They last week they announced a one year jump on net profits to 23.66 billion over for Q1.
So record profits.
I don't know if that's record profits, but really great profits.
And yet that's not enough and they're cutting people.
And I saw it all over Mastodon.
TechCrunch has some highlights of different people posting, including from Thomas Wooders,
who's one of the Python core people.
He's on the steering council too as well.
Oh yeah.
And also Dart.
So Google lays off staff from Flutter, Dart and Python teams.
And I and there's no official announcement as far as I can tell from Google yet.
It's just since it was under 100 people, they not announcing it.
Basically leaked messages from team leaders to the teams and stuff like that.
That's what we're seeing.
Yeah.
And I don't remember what article I saw this in and it's from the register.
Some of the teams have been reduced in favor of a new team based in Munich.
And then I thought, I don't know if this is true or not.
I heard somebody mentioned that some of the laid off people are getting or having to retrain
having to train their replacements, which is tacky and yicky.
So hopefully that's not true.
Anyway, my my I guess I hope everything goes well for everybody that is part of this and
hopefully land land on their feet.
Well, so good luck.
Yeah.
Sorry, folks.
I'm gonna try to take out my entire tech stack.
Python and then the mobile apps are Flutter and Dart.
And I was like, Oh, come on.
I'm actually more worried about Flutter and Dart, because Google is such a pen city to
like just kill stuff.
You know, there's the Google graveyard and all that sort of things that you hear about.
They're the lead of Flutter and Dart, whereas they're not in charge of Python.
It's just unfortunate.
Yeah, going that way.
Yeah.
So yeah, you've used Flutter and Dart before for a project.
Yeah, it's great.
Yeah.
So the talk Python courses mobile app is built in.
Yeah, I would build it in Python if we had solid options there.
But sadly, we're not there yet.
Someday.
All right.
Before we call it on that, all of my have a quick follow up to this.
It's part of this.
Okay.
It's not as timely, although it's an article from seven days ago.
It talks about the history last couple of years, and it it's quite a long article.
Let me look.
It's sorry, the original.
There is what I would like to the original one on where's your ed at, which is an awesome
domain.
But it's a really long write up, and it's entitled the man who killed Google search.
And basically, it documents the struggle between the search team whose job is to build features
that are better for you, better for me, better for everyone.
And the ad team whose job is to make you do more queries.
So more ads show up so that you might click them.
So they called for a code yellow, which in Google parlance actually means a really bad
thing like code red would probably be the way people would think of it.
It says people are finding what they look for too quickly and leaving.
So what can we do to like, make them see more ads, basically.
And there was a big struggle for a couple of years.
This all started in 2019.
But it's basically the in clarification, if you will, the slightly nicer, Cory Doctorow
term of Google search.
And if you feel like over the last couple years, Google search has gotten worse, it's
on purpose so that you will spend more time seeing ads and maybe clicking them.
How about that?
Well, yeah.
So one of the things that people look at is your bounce rate.
So I may get this wrong, because I'm not really a like a stats wonk.
But bounce rate, I think is, I don't know what it is, it measures how how many how long
people stay in on your site and look at different, what is it?
How many pages they see, look at what before they leave?
I think that's right.
As you you get to one page and you leave, you don't subsequently explore the page.
Okay, so a lot of people don't want that.
And I personally, I think for my like, blog and stuff, anything I'm doing, I love
a low bounce rate.
That means that my, my analytics and whatever, or my Google search terms and all that are
correct and people can find exactly what they're looking for right away.
And they don't need to click around and find something else.
But I'm not I'm not like pushing ads.
So yeah, anyway.
Yep.
I'm off to read this.
This is very interesting.
It's super interesting.
Yeah, I read it yesterday.
It's really interesting.
And it's not inspiring.
But it is interesting.
And the reason I even brought it up, not because of word Google appears in both but the the
like, hey, we don't care so much about the tech.
We're not doing this to support the community.
We need our cut.
And what can we do to make that happen?
It feels very much like the same vibe of it's motivating a lot of these layoffs.
And like, yeah, we don't really like how we make money on ads from Flutter.
I don't think we do.
Can we get that out of here?
Like these people are just dead weight, like that kind of thing.
Right.
And these a little less so for Python, but still.
Also, but this is the, this isn't a struggling company.
This is one of the most profitable companies in the world.
Yes.
I think they just became a two trillion dollar stock market valuation.
So it's not just we need to make money, but we need to make more and always more and always
more.
Never enough.
So anyway, it's too bad.
Well, those are our topics.
Do you do you have anything extra since you're I am feeling not very extra.
I have one extra one extra.
This is good.
Yeah.
Cool.
So previously I've spoken about LM studio and this is like right in line with what I
was talking about earlier, the local LLM.
So download, discover and run local LLMs.
The way it works is you run this app, then you tell it you basically search hugging face
models and they get rankings and all that kind of stuff.
And then it just downloads a whole bunch of them.
It gives you a chat interface.
You can say now I want to run Mistral now I want to run fine now I want to run whatever.
Right.
You pick the ones you downloaded different sizes, all sorts of things.
Well, the big deal is LLAMA 3, which is a very powerful but not too big open source
LLM for Meta is now available locally on LM studio.
And boy, oh boy, is it good.
It's really good.
So like for example, I gave it a segment of a Docker compose file with concrete settings.
I said, tell me what this does and tell me not just what do these mean, but exactly what
does each command do?
Like when it says restart, does it just, and it says restart five times until you consider
it failed.
So they just try as fast as it can.
Does it use, is there some kind of way to set a timeout?
It's like, oh no, no, it uses an exponential back off and it works like this.
And here's the formula to compute like, pretty good running locally.
Highly recommend.
That's pretty cool.
Yep.
So that's my only extra.
My one extra is just a public service announcement because I run into this all the time.
I don't know.
It's a basic Python thing, but this article, Oh, who's it from?
I should give him his anyway.
Actually, sorry.
It's Python gotchas, strip L strip and R strip can remove more than expected.
And I do this all the time.
I forget about it.
So what else strip L strip and R strip do is they take a string and they strip characters
out of it.
And if you give it like a word, it doesn't take the word out.
It takes, it's a, that's a set of characters that it removes.
And that's not usually what I mean, but Python has what do they have?
We have remove prefix and remove suffix that you want to use instead.
So if you, if that's what you want to do, if you just want to remove something off the
beginning of the, of a string, use remove suffix, remove prefix.
And I bring this up because I always run into it and, and then in, in my little test
example it works and then I put it in a bigger project and it doesn't work.
What's going on?
So that's it.
That's it.
PSA.
Yeah.
That's it.
I'm just kidding.
If you could start over, I think it would be awesome that L strip and R strip and all
those things could take two keyword arguments that were required as keyword.
One is characters and another is a substrings or something.
You just say characters equal this or substring equals that or something.
But you know, even changing keyword names, primary names is breaking because you can
explicitly state them.
So.
Well, yeah.
And it's, it's a different interesting thing because strings are iterable.
So like, because sometimes I really do want what it does.
Like sometimes I want to take out the, like the dashes out of a string or something
like that.
But yeah.
Anyway.
All right.
Oh, let's see.
Who, who's this from?
This is Andrew Wagner, Andrew.
So thanks Andrew.
All right.
Something funny.
Oh, I got some funny today.
I had a couple of funny.
So let's start with the traditional style of funny.
So this comes to us from dev humor.
And both you and I work on courses, but a ton of energy and we don't charge that much
money for them.
But here's kind of a paradox or, or something.
So this is the post that says developers will spend $150,000 on a computer science degree.
Then they go and they go and learn JavaScript on YouTube for free.
We'll pay 20 bucks for it.
Basically.
Yeah.
Like of course you get that too.
Right.
People say, can I get it for cheaper?
Yeah.
And then I've been playing with Pyjoke, the actual Python API, not the CLI of it.
And did you know that in Pyjoke you can specify a category and one of the categories is Chuck
Norris.
So let me read you.
I'm just going to get like five, five Chuck Norris programming jokes for you.
Are you ready for this?
This one is right, right down your alley.
The first one.
Okay.
Chuck Norris's unit tests don't run.
They die.
Let me have a hit if you are good.
Okay.
This one's pretty good.
Chuck Norris doesn't need to use Ajax for JavaScript postbacks.
Chuck Norris doesn't need to use Ajax because pages are too afraid to post back anyway.
Chuck Norris can dereference null.
Okay.
That's, that's my favorite so far.
Hold on.
Okay.
Last one.
Chuck Norris's programs never exit.
They are terminate.
Okay.
That's pretty good.
Yeah.
So anyway, if you pass the Chuck category to PI jokes, plural, not PI jokes singular,
pretty awesome.
Oh, those are, those two different things.
Well, oh yeah.
One is like a expired version from 2014 and jokes as at least been updated in 2019.
Okay.
Yeah.
All right.
Looking for contributors there, man.
Exactly.
Sure.
We can get a few more of these.
No one has ever paired program with Chuck Norris and live to tell the tale.
We can tell the tale of the podcast, Brian.
Yeah.
Well, next week, are you back in town or?
I am back in town.
Okay.
Everything is back to normal.
So glad.
We'll talk to everybody next week.
Yeah.
I'm glad we're able to do the show anyway.
So yeah.
Yeah.
Good to see you.
Bye.